Add Scroll to Text Fragment, CORB and CORP Leaks (#7)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/corb.md

+++
title = "CORB Leaks"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "attacks"
attacks = [
    "dom property",
]
defenses = [
    "same-site cookies",
    "sec-fetch metadata",
]
menu = "main"
+++

## Explanation

> [Cross-Origin Read Blocking](({{< ref "../defenses/browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}})) (CORB) is a web platform security feature to reduce the impact of speculative side-channel attacks such as Spectre. Unfortunately, the principle of blocking certain types of requests introduced a new type of XS-Leaks.

Author: Agree. Added a sentence in acf3d2f

> An attacker tries to embed a cross-origin resource in a `script` tag which returns `200 OK` with `text/html` as `Content-Type` and a `nosniff` Header, in order to protect sensitive contents from entering the attacker's process, `CORB` will replace the original response with an empty one. Since an empty response is **valid** JavaScript, the `onerror` event won't be fired and `onload` will fire instead. This behavior is unfortunate, as the response could contain something other than JavaScript, considering a non-CORB environment would trigger an error. On the other hand, if the request returns something other than `200 OK` the `onerror` event will fire, and the same would happen in a non-CORB environment. This introduces an XS-Leak as these situations are now distinguishable.

Author: Yes I agree. Fortunately, I did the bullet strategy in the last articles, and I think it works quite well to untangle these dense paragraphs.

> An attacker tries to embed a cross-origin resource in a `script` tag which returns `200 OK` with `text/html` as `Content-Type` and a `nosniff` Header, in order to protect sensitive contents from entering the attacker's process, `CORB` will replace the original response with an empty one. Since an empty response is **valid** JavaScript, the `onerror` event won't be fired and `onload` will fire instead. This behavior is unfortunate, as the response could contain something other than JavaScript, considering a non-CORB environment would trigger an error. On the other hand, if the request returns something other than `200 OK` the `onerror` event will fire, and the same would happen in a non-CORB environment. This introduces an XS-Leak as these situations are now distinguishable.

Author: Fixed in d95e9f5. Please read it carefully.

During this change I gained a new perspective on error events, and when (and why) they are triggered. This is similar to one of the onerror discussions we had in the past, so I would like to share my new insights on this.

Also, maybe I was wrong on the recommendation I gave to chrome as this XS-Leak, did introduce something that was not reproducible before.

### Why is this a problem?

> The implications of this attack are similar to the [Error-based](https://TODO) and [CORP](https://TODO) XS-Leaks. This issue allows attackers to get a **difference** from the same request, which occurs depending on the targeted user.

Author: I am doing major refactoring on this article, this sentence will likely be dropped.

> The implications of this attack are similar to the [Error-based](https://TODO) and [CORP](https://TODO) XS-Leaks. This issue allows attackers to get a **difference** from the same request, which occurs depending on the targeted user.

Author: This was dropped, does not had much to the current article.

#### Case Scenarios

- An Attacker wants to identify if Jane Doe visits its site. To perform this, the attacker exploits this XS-Leak by attacking a social network Jane might use. The attacker notices https://social-network.com/user/janedoe/edit is only accessible to Jane, causing an error for other users. Since this endpoint is vulnerable to this XS-Leak, the attacker can identify the identity of Jane by detecting when CORB strips the response and trigger the `onload` event.

## Defense

| [Same-Site Cookies]({{< ref "../defenses/opt-in/same-site-cookies.md" >}})  | [Fetch Metadata](https://TODO)  | [Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy]({{< ref "../defenses/opt-in/coop.md" >}})  |  [Framing Protections]({{< ref "../defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) |
|:------------------:|:---------------:|:-----:|:--------------------:|
|         ✔️         |      ✔️         |  ❌   |          ❌         |

{{< hint info >}}
Chromium is the only browser currently implementing [CORB](https://TODO). With the [default rollout](https://www.chromium.org/updates/same-site) of [Same-Site cookies](https://TODO) this attack becomes fairly **powerless**.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

> This issue is known by Chromium, and is might remain [unfixed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kdqstoT1uH5JafGmRXrtKE4yVfjUVmXitjcvJ4tbBvM/edit?ts=5f2c8004). While remaining an issue, CORB itself did not introduce anything that was not observable before, for example, using XS-Leaks like [error-events](https://TODO).

Author: Yes I believe so. I guess @terjanq point makes sense. I also think this sentence looks like an `opinion` so we should probably drop it from the wiki.

> This issue is known by Chromium, and is might remain [unfixed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kdqstoT1uH5JafGmRXrtKE4yVfjUVmXitjcvJ4tbBvM/edit?ts=5f2c8004). While remaining an issue, CORB itself did not introduce anything that was not observable before, for example, using XS-Leaks like [error-events](https://TODO).

Author: Fixed it in 1293c79. I only mention this might remain unfixed (its more or less what the CORB document describes), and I say its impact is affected by the rollout of default Same-Site Cookies

> This issue is known by Chromium, and is might remain [unfixed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kdqstoT1uH5JafGmRXrtKE4yVfjUVmXitjcvJ4tbBvM/edit?ts=5f2c8004). While remaining an issue, CORB itself did not introduce anything that was not observable before, for example, using XS-Leaks like [error-events](https://TODO).

Author: Small fix 6d66309

> This issue is known by Chromium, and is might remain [unfixed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kdqstoT1uH5JafGmRXrtKE4yVfjUVmXitjcvJ4tbBvM/edit?ts=5f2c8004). While remaining an issue, CORB itself did not introduce anything that was not observable before, for example, using XS-Leaks like [error-events](https://TODO).

Author: For the nosniff section, I drafted a initial one in 36a5a61, but I will have to discuss one (live) important detail with you to get a final state on this one

{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

> Developers can deploy [CORP](https://TODO) in application resources to opt-in to obtain similar CORB protections. To prevent attackers from abusing this XS-Leak, generic XS-Leaks defense mechanisms are also effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can deploy [CORP](https://TODO) in application resources to force a protection similar to CORB that does not inspect responses to decide when to act. To prevent attackers from abusing this XS-Leak, generic XS-Leaks defense mechanisms are also effective.
```

+++
title = "CORB Leaks"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "attacks"
attacks = [
    "dom property",
]
defenses = [
    "same-site cookies",
    "sec-fetch metadata",
]
menu = "main"
+++

[Cross-Origin Read Blocking](({{< ref "../defenses/browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}})) (CORB) is a web platform security feature to reduce the impact of speculative side-channel attacks such as Spectre. Unfortunately, the principle of blocking certain types of requests introduced a new type of XS-Leaks, allowing attackers to detect CORB was enforced in one request, but wasn't on another. Nevertheless, the introduced XS-Leaks are much less problematic than the issues actively protected by CORB (e.g Spectre).

## CORB & Error Events

> To detect when CORB is enforced, the following steps could be observed in order **to leak the status code** returned by a page:

Author: Aren't both correlated? Now thinking again, I believe this doesn't really leak the status code of any of the states, just use them to succeed. 

1. The first state returns `200 text/html nosniff`. Later CORB is enforced, the body and headers are stripped. The observable behaviour is the fact this this does not trigger onerror since it's now a valid response. The status code kinda stays the same (CORB and non-CORB)?
2. Nothing really happens, what was an error before it's an error now. Status code also remains the same.

Important to point out. Executing non-executable CTs trigger the scriptElement.onerror while parsing error trigger window.onerror.

> To detect when CORB is enforced, the following steps could be observed in order **to leak the status code** returned by a page:

Reviewer: Please reword this to be clear on what is leaked and what is a pre-condition to leak it.

> To detect when CORB is enforced, the following steps could be observed in order **to leak the status code** returned by a page:

Author: Should be better now. b163caf

Note. We cannot go further on this, otherwise we have to explain CORB two times in the wiki. I think it's expected a reader must know what CORB do (by reading our article) to understand this XS-Leak.

Let me know if there is something we can do differently with the new explanations.

## Detect `nosniff` Header

CORB could also allow attackers do detect when the `nosniff` Header is present in the request. The example bellow shows two different states that could occur, and allow an attacker to distinguish both:

1. CORB will prevent an attacker page which embeds a resource as a `script` if the resource is served with `text/html` as `Content-Type` along with the `nosniff` Header. 
2. If the resource does not set `nosniff` and CORB [fails](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/services/network/cross_origin_read_blocking_explainer.md#what-types-of-content-are-protected-by-corb) to infer the `Content-Type` of the page (which remains `text/html`), a `SyntaxError` will be fired since the contents can't be parsed as valid JavaScript. This error can be caught by listening to `window.onerror` as `script` tags only trigger error events in [certain conditions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLScriptElement).

## Case Scenarios

> - An Attacker wants to identify if Jane Doe visits its site. To perform this, the attacker exploits this XS-Leak by attacking a social network Jane might use. The attacker notices https://social-network.com/user/janedoe/edit is only accessible to Jane, causing an error for other users. Since this endpoint is vulnerable to this XS-Leak, the attacker can identify the identity of Jane by detecting when CORB strips the response and trigger the `onload` event.

Reviewer: I would just remove this case scenario, doesn't add much more value.

Author: Removed. 3956567
